# Elites-Super-Store-Analysis

This is a descriptive analysis of a company's fictional sales data. A group project organised by **Data Elite** where SQL is being preferred.

## Objective

The Elites Super Store(ESS) data is a distinguished retail establishment, is committed to enhancing customer experiences and optimizing operational efficiency through the strategic application of data-driven analyses.To analyse the Elites Superstore Sales dataset using SQL queries and extract valuable insights related to sales performance, customer behaviour, and product categories.

## Brief Overview of the Dataset

An excel file which contained 3 worksheet was supplied. The worksheets contained orders,returns and users data. All code being documented on Readme file

## Data Source

Data used was from **Elite store**

## Query Language Used

Structural Query Language (SQL) was used to unravel insights embedded in our store data.

## Database Management used (DBMS)

- Postgresql
- Zoho Analytics

## Documentation used
  
- Microsoft word

## Processes

### Data cleaning

The data was neat tailored to the insight given.

### Methodologies

Data was extracted from Data Elites stores data base repository. Meeting was hosted to explain the project, a data dictionary and the insights was given to carry on.
Data was imported into DBMS and wrangled to fit into each needed task of the project. 

### Data Presentation 

Each data output were presented in tabular form.

## Actionable Insight

Insight is being given by **Elite Store**

### 1. Basic Queries

Write SQL queries to retrieve the total number of orders, customers, and products in the dataset.

### Insight

It was observed that Yvonne Mann has the highest order, 167 of product Economy Rollaway Files. It was also observed that customer Bob Berg made the lowest order, 1 of product Xerox 1892.

### 2. Sales Metrics
   
•	Calculate and display the total sales, average discount, and profit for each product category.

•	Order the results by total sales in descending order.

### Insight

In order to evaluate ESS sales metrics, ESS data was ordered by product categories in the highest order of sales made from each category. It was discovered that Technology as a category has the highest sales (712,264.95), average discount on Technology products was 0.048, and however, a total profit of 75,303.16 was realized. Meanwhile, the lowest sales generated by product category was Office equipment with total sales of 551,368.62 at average discount of 0.049, but this product category generated the highest sales profit of 89,525.01 among other product categories. 

### 3. Customer Analysis
   
•	Identify the top 10 customers with the highest total sales.

•	Calculate the average order value for each customer segment.

### Insight 

In the process of finding out the top 10 customers with the highest sales it was observed that the sales range made by this category of customers was between 50,475 and 16,792. These customer fell into 5 segments that is: "Consumer", "Corporate", "Small Business", and “Home Office". Also their average order value was between 12 and 14.

### 4. Temporal Analysis
   
•	Analyze the sales trend over time by displaying the monthly sales for each year in the dataset.

•	Identify the month with the highest sales.

•	Analyze the sales trend over time by displaying the monthly sales for each year in the dataset.

### Insight

In order to understand the trend of time that ESS products was sold from the extracted data sets, the data was evaluated by year and months of sales. The output showed that ESS sales was made within 6 consecutive months of sales period in the year 2015. Also ESS Sales records that was analyzed was between January and June 2015. It was observed that ESS sales improved month on month, with a marginal sales drop in March and May. However, their sales grow from 274,767 in January to 355,369 in June. Meanwhile the highest sales was achieved in April with sales volume 389,832.

### 5. Product Performance
   
•	Determine the top 5 best-selling products based on the quantity sold.

•	Calculate the profit margin for each product and display the results.

### Insight 

From the data pool used for this project, there are 1,952 products sold by ESS, the top 5 product based on quantity sold are "Newell 323" which is the highest quantity sold at 268. The least among the top 5 product sold was Belkin 107-key enhanced keyboard, USB/PS/2 interface, total sales generated was 154. Based on the data, it was observed that the highest profit margin made from the products sold was 99,998.3 (Avery White Multi-Purpose Labels). While their lowest profit margin on each product soled was -16,902.59 (Sanford EarthWrite® Recycled Pencils, Medium Soft, #2). 

### 6. Discount Analysis

•	Analyze the impact of discounts on sales and profit.

•	Calculate the average discount for each product category.

### Insight 

In order to analyze the impact of discount on sales and profit of ESS products. The data was categorized into two, that is, sales and profits made without discount and those made with discounts. It was discovered that the more put discount on their sales the lesser sales volume and profit generated. However, the average discount by product category are 0.05, 0.048 and 0.049 in the respective order for Furniture, Technology and Office Supplies.

### 7. Customer Segmentation (Bonus)

•	Create a segmentation analysis by dividing customers into different groups based on their total purchases.

•	Provide insights into the characteristics of each customer group.

### Insight

Every customer from ESS data set was segmented into 4, observation showed that Corporate Customer segment contributes 34% (657,785) to ESS Sales. Small office customer segment contributes 24% (464,481) while Small business and Consumer contribute 21% (400,294 and 401,778) respectively to ESS overall sales. This sales contribution by customer is a healthy one as corporate customer segment could be liken to high volume customers who in turn serve as market hubs to ESS product distribution.

## RECOMMENDATION

From the analysis done, it was discovered that sales discounting impact heavily on ESS Sales and profit. The more discount rates offered to customers the lesser ESS sales and profit. In as much as discounting is important as a sales promotional activities this work recommends that ESS should maintain a minimal discount rate of 2% for optimal sales performance and profit achievement.
Furthermore, observation also show that while corporate (customer base of 34%) in customer segments patronize ESS sales more, ESS make higher profit revenue from Small Business (Profit revenue 65,303 with 20% customer base). This work recommends that ESS should device more sales activity in cooperate customer segment, as this customer segment has more potential to pull high sales value to boost the business for higher profit achievement.






  
